In the previous video we already learn how to find
Network IP and Broadcast IP.
Now in this video, we are going to learn the last thing, which is Range IP.
But before we start learning about Range IP,  first we need to determine which
block subnet we are going to use.
In this case, we are going to use the
first block subnet, which is 0 until 127.
Okay, now you need to remember that Network
IP and Broadcast IP can never be used.
Let’s say we want to configure the IP
Address of computer as 192.168.0.0,
pay attention here that 0 is the
Network IP. So this will be failed,
because we try to use Network IP,  and always
remember that Network IP can never be used!
Let’s try it in the Cisco Packet Tracer. Here
let’s try to edit the IP to 192.168.0.0.
Okay, here we can see that we have an error message
“error invalid ip for this subnetmask entered”
Why this happened? This is because 192.168.0.0
is Network IP and remember that
Network IP can never be used.
Now let’s try to configure with Broadcast IP, if
you remember our calculation before, the Broadcast
IP is 192.168.0.127, so let’s configure here
192.168.0.127. Here we don’t have an error, why?
Because the subnetmask is 255.255.255.0, which
is /24, in the subnetmask 255.255.255.0 or prefix /24
127 is not broadcast, but the broadcast
is 255. This is why we don’t get an error here.
Now let’s edit the subnetmask to
255.255.255.128 as our calculation before.
Okay here we get an error now.
So always remember that Network IP and Broadcast
IP can never be used. So which IP that we can used?
The IP that can be used is after Network IP until
before Broadcast IP. And this is called range IP.
So range IP is the IP that can be used.
In this case the range IP is 1 until 126.
And remember that this number will
replace the last number in the IP Address,
so the Range IP is 192.168.0.1
until 192.168.1.126.
Okay, now we are done learning subnetting in the
first case. We have learned to calculate Total IP,
Subnetmask, Network IP,
Broadcast IP, and IP Range.
I think enough for this video, in the next
video, we are going to learn about subnetting again
with different case. Thankyou for
watching and see you on the next video!